bond: add documentation (#80)
bisdn/bisdn.github.io: network_configuration/linkaggregation.md

---
title: Link Aggregation
parent: Network Configuration
---

# Link Aggregation 

## Introduction

> Link Aggregation, or bonding, is a feature that allows to aggregate several network interfaces into a single virtual interface, known as a bond. Bonding interfaces together allows for channel redundancy, in case of link failure for example; or to aggregate bandwidth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Link Aggregation, or bonding, is a feature that allows to aggregate several network interfaces into a single virtual interface, known as a bond. Bonding interfaces allows for channel redundancy and is used to protect against link failure or to aggregate bandwidth.
```

> Link Aggregation, or bonding is a feature that allows to aggregate several network interfaces into a single virtual interface, known as a bond. Bonding interfaces together allows for channel redundancy, in case of link failure for example; or to aggregate bandwidth together.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Link Aggregation, or bonding, is a feature that allows to aggregate several network interfaces into a single virtual interface, known as a bond. Bonding interfaces together allows for channel redundancy, in case of link failure for example; or to aggregate bandwidth.
```

> BISDN Linux bonds can work as 1 one of the several modes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
BISDN Linux bonds can work in one of the following modes:
```

>  - Round Robin (bond mode 0) which sequentially transmits packets on the available interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Round Robin (bond mode 0) which distributes packets evenly across all available bonded interfaces.
```

>  - Round Robin (bond mode 0) which sequentially transmits packets on the available interfaces

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Round Robin (bond mode 0) which sequentially transmits packets on the available interfaces.
```

>  - Active Backup (bond mode 1) where only one slave of the bond is active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Active Backup (bond mode 1) where only one slave of the bond is active and the other one is only used a backup in case of failure.
```

>  - Active Backup (bond mode 1) where only one slave of the bond is active

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Active Backup (bond mode 1) where only one slave of the bond is active.
```

>  - 802.3AD LACP (bond mode 4) referring to dynamic link aggregation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - 802.3AD LACP (bond mode 4) referring to dynamic link aggregation and providing link failure redundancy as well as bandwidth aggregation
```

>  - 802.3AD LACP (bond mode 4) referring to dynamic link aggregation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - 802.3AD LACP (bond mode 4) referring to dynamic link aggregation.
```

For further explanation of bond modes refer to [bonding documentation](https://wiki.linuxfoundation.org/networking/bonding)

## iproute2

> Creation of the bond interface is done with the following command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Creation of the bond interface is done with the following commands:
```

```

> ip link add bond1 type bond mode $bond_mode

Reviewer: $bond_mode is set nowhere here

Reviewer 3: To pile onto that, `miimon 100` would be a good idea as well by default

ip link set bond1 up
```

> Attaching a slave interface to the bond is done via

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Attaching a slave interface to the bond is done via:
```

```

> ip link set $PORT master bond1 

Reviewer: $PORT seems to be unset

> ip link set portX master bond1 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ip link set $PORT master bond1 
```

> ip link set portX up

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ip link set $PORT up
```

```

> After creating and setting up the bonded interface, it can be used as the normal BISDN Linux switch ports. For example adding an IP address is done via

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After creating and setting up the bonded interface, it can be used as the normal BISDN Linux switch ports. For example adding an IP address is done via:
```

Reviewer 2: I think we can also just refer to our documentation on vlan configuration here. although a single example is always nice to have.

```
ip address add 10.0.0.2/24 dev bond1
```

A bond can also be a bridge slave interface.

```

> ip link set bond1 master $BRIDGE

Reviewer: $BRIDGE seems unset

> ip link set bond1 master $BRIDGE

Reviewer 2: Either use $PORT on line 31 and 32, or use some random variable bridge name here, f.ex BRIDGEX.
For consistency

```

## systemd-networkd

> A `.netdev` file for the bond needs to be created in `/etc/systemd/network/`, containing the device type (bond) and its configurations. 

Reviewer 2: We should add that we can vary the Mode as well. Is it also important to note that the MIIMonitor value is important for active-backup. In the lacp case it is important to have  LACPTransmitRate: "fast"

```
10-bond1.netdev

[NetDev]
Name=bond1
Kind=bond

[Bond]
Mode=active-backup
MIIMonitorSec=0.1
```

> The slave tap interface is configured via

Reviewer: where does the tap interface come from?

```
20-port2.network
[Match]
Name=port2

[Network]
Bond=bond1
PrimarySlave=true

> ```

Reviewer: it looks like only one interface is added to the bond here, what is the usecase for that?
